# Code Fellows 201

## Class 6

### Duckett: Readings

#### Understanding the Problem Domain

It is important to understand the problem you are trying to solve with code when writing code. The code will be easier to write, and the end product will be more in-line with the original vision if we understand the problem domain. Understand use cases and how the product should behave.

[Reference](https://simpleprogrammer.com/understanding-the-problem-domain-is-the-hardest-part-of-programming/)

#### Primitive Values vs Object References

Primititive Value

- Immutable
- Actual values

Object Reference

- Mutable
- Reference

Javascript's Eight Data Types:

- Boolean
- Null
- Undefined
- Number
- BigInt
- String
- Symbol
- Objects

[Reference](https://betterprogramming.pub/intermediate-javascript-whats-the-difference-between-primitive-values-and-object-references-e863d70677b)

### Duckett: JavaScript & Jquery

#### Chapter 3: “Object Literals” (pp.100-105)

"Objects group together a set of variables and functions to create a model of something you would recognize form the real world. In an object, variables and functions take on new names" (Duckett, p. 100).

Variables become properties.

Functions become methods.

```js
let userProfile = {
  name: 'Dylan',
  age: 204,

  checkAge: function () {
    return this.age;
  },
};
```

#### Chapter 5: “Document Object Model” (pp.183-242)

The DOM is independent of any programming language and makes the structure of a document available through a Web API.

DOM Tree used to represent web pages in browser.

Manipulating the DOM tree with JS creates intereactive websites.

Four types of Dom trees:

- document nodes
- element nodes
- attribute nodes
- text nodes

[Reference: MDN Intro to DOM](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction)

---

[HOME PAGE](https://getullrichordietrying.github.io/reading-notes/)
