# Code Fellows 401 JavaScript

## Class 3: Express REST API

### [Review: ES6 Classes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes)

1. Classes are a template for creating \_\_\_\_.

- Objects.

2. Can a class declaration be hoisted?

- Negative. The class declaration needs to be defined before an object can be constructed.

3. How would you describe a constructor and contextual “this” to a non-technical friend?

- A constructor is the design for something you want to create. You need the design first, and then `this` can refer to specific traits of the item or object that will be created.

## [Using Express Routing](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/routing.html)

1. Within Express, what does routing refer to?

- "Routing refers to how an application’s endpoints (URIs) respond to client requests."

2. What is the difference between a route path and a route method?

- The method is what is happening like GET or POST.
- The path indicates the endpoint at which calls can be made.

3. When is it appropriate to add next as a parameter to a route handler and what must you do if next has been passed to your middleware as a parameter?

- When you have multiple callback functions. Next will continue to the next callback.

## [Express Routing](https://scotch.io/tutorials/learn-to-use-the-new-router-in-expressjs-4)

1. What is an Express Router?

- A mini express application that only has stuff for routing.

2. By what mean do we initialize express.Router() in an express server?

- Applies routes and asks our application to use them.

3. What do we use route middleware for?

- To check something before a request is processed. For example, checking if a user is authenticated.

[HOME PAGE](https://getullrichordietrying.github.io/reading-notes/)
