# Code Fellows 401 JavaScript

## Class 13: Message Queues

### [Socket.io Chat Example](https://socket.io/get-started/chat/)

1. Explain to a non-technical recruiter what the Chat Example (above) does.

- The chat app example above is a great demonstration of how easy it is to create a chat app in the Node ecosystem utilizing socket.io. These are the barebones you could use for your own app.

2. What proof of life are we getting on the backend from the above app?

- In our terminal we see when people are connecting, etc.

3. Socket.IO gives us the i0.emit() method to send an event to everyone. What flag would you use if you want to send a message to everyone except for a certain emitting socket?

- "If you want to send a message to everyone except for a certain emitting socket, we have the broadcast flag for emitting from that socket:"

```js
io.on('connection', (socket) => {
  socket.broadcast.emit('hi');
});
```

### [Rooms](https://socket.io/docs/v4/rooms)

1. What is a room and how might a room be useful?

- "A room is an arbitrary channel that sockets can join and leave. It can be used to broadcast events to a subset of clients"
- Utilizing a room is an easy way to broadcast information to a specific group of people.

2. How do you join a room?

```js
io.on('connection', (socket) => {
  socket.join('some room');
});
```

3. How do you leave a room?

```js
io.on('connection', (socket) => {
  socket.on('disconnecting', () => {
    console.log(socket.rooms); // the Set contains at least the socket ID
  });

  socket.on('disconnect', () => {
    // socket.rooms.size === 0
  });
});
```

### [Namespaces](https://socket.io/docs/v4/namespaces/)

1. What is a Namespace and what does it allow you to do?

- "A Namespace is a communication channel that allows you to split the logic of your application over a single shared connection (also called "multiplexing")"

2. Each namespace potentially has its own what? (hint: 3 things)

- event handlers, rooms, middlewares.

3. Discuss a possible use case for separate namespaces

- Different namespaces can be utilized to allow information to reach only specified (authorized) users.

---

[HOME PAGE](https://getullrichordietrying.github.io/reading-notes/)
