# Code Fellows 401 JavaScript

## Class 6: Authentication

### [Securing Passwords](https://thehackernews.com/2014/04/securing-passwords-with-bcrypt-hashing.html)

1. Explain to a non-technical friend how you would safely hash and store a password.

- You can safely hash and store a password by using math to hide the real values within the password. Company databases should all do this to secure user information.

2. What is Bcrypt?

- A password hashing function that makes brute force attacks slower.

3. Why might you use something like Bcrypt?

- Store sensitive data on a server.

### [Basic Auth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication)

1. What is Basic Authentication?

- Essentially, logging into a service with a username and password as a result of an HTTP transaction.

2. What properties are necessary in the header of a Basic Auth request?

- `Authorization: Basic <credentials>`

3. How are `username:password` in Basic Auth encoded?

- Base64

### [OWASP auth cheatsheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Authentication_Cheat_Sheet.html)

1. Define the authentication process to a non-technical recruiter.

- "Authentication is the process of verifying that an individual, entity or website is whom it claims to be. Authentication in the context of web applications is commonly performed by submitting a username or ID and one or more items of private information that only a given user should know."

2. How should your error messaging respond (both HTTP and HTML)? Why?

- HTTP is the protocol and HTML is the package traveling on the protocol.

3. Bookmark this link also and consider OWASP fundamentals any time you interact with authentication. Applications developed with security in mind from inception have fewer vulnerabilities throughout their lifecycle.

- Great information.

---

[HOME PAGE](https://getullrichordietrying.github.io/reading-notes/)
