# Code Fellows 401 JavaScript

## Class 27: useState() Hook

### [Introducing Hooks](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html#motivation)

1. What was the motivation for introducing Hooks?

- Utilize state in a functional component. Classes get confusing to machines and people.

2. What changes are important regarding implementing Hooks versus Component Classes?

- Hooks don't work inside classes.

3. Hooks allow you to reuse stateful logic without changing **\_ **\_\*\*\*\*.

- **component hierarchy**.

### [Hooks API](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-overview.html)

1. Name two rules imposed by React Hook usage.

- "Only call Hooks at the top level. Don’t call Hooks inside loops, conditions, or nested functions."
- "Only call Hooks from React function components. Don’t call Hooks from regular JavaScript functions. (There is just one other valid place to call Hooks — your own custom Hooks. We’ll learn about them in a moment.)"

2. How would you identify a custom Hook and why might you create one?

- Find where `use` is located. Cover more use cases.

### [The State Hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-state.html)

1. What is a Hook?

- "A Hook is a special function that lets you “hook into” React features"

2. When would I use the useState Hook?

- We use `useState` as an alternative to `this.state`.

3. If you were to add React state to a function component by declaring a state variable:

- What does calling useState do?

  Declares State Variable

- What do we pass to useState as an argument?

  The initial state.

- What does useState return?

  It returns a pair of values: the current state and a function that updates it.

---

[HOME PAGE](https://getullrichordietrying.github.io/reading-notes/)
