# Code Fellows 401 JavaScript

## Class 7: Bearer Authorization

### [Introduction to JSON Web Tokens](https://jwt.io/introduction/)

1. What is a JSON Web Token (JWT)?

- "JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the HMAC algorithm) or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.

  Although JWTs can be encrypted to also provide secrecy between parties, we will focus on signed tokens. Signed tokens can verify the integrity of the claims contained within it, while encrypted tokens hide those claims from other parties. When tokens are signed using public/private key pairs, the signature also certifies that only the party holding the private key is the one that signed it." -_Credit to above link_

2. When should we use JSON Web Tokens?

- Authorization and Information exchange.

3. Claims are expected in which structural component of a JWT?

- Payload

### [Are JWT's Secure?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27301557/if-you-can-decode-jwt-how-are-they-secure)

1. If I get a JWT and I can decode the payload, how can we call that secure?

- Only JWTs with proper `Hash(payload + secret)` will be accepted.

2. If sending a JWT, what must sender and receiver both know? Hint, it’s appended in the signature.

- `Hash(payload + secret)`

3. Explain how concatenated content and secret can be sent and received securely to a non-technical recruiter.

- Pretend you have three people that are sending mail to each other. Bob, Sam, and Jed. Bob and Sam know the secret phrase to decipher each other's letters. Jed, the pesky undercover mailman, tried to swap out the letter with one that looked similar. Only thing is, Bob knew right away that the letter was not from Sam because the secret phrase did not match, thus he did not accept the letter.

### [JWTs Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=926mknSW9Lo)

1. Why use JWT?

- Open standard.
- Securely transfer information between any two bodies.
- Digitally signed.
- Compact.
- Self contained.
- Authentication.

2. JWT is Compact and self-contained. Describe how this is useful to a non-technical friend.

- JWT is is fast, easy to send, and easy to verify validity.

3. What are the three components (the structure) of a JWT signature?

- Header
- Payload
- Signature

[HOME PAGE](https://getullrichordietrying.github.io/reading-notes/)
