# Code Fellows 401 JavaScript

## Class 26: Component Based UI

### [React Hello World](https://reactjs.org/docs/hello-world.html)

1. What are the building blocks of a React app?

- elements and components.

2. What is the difference between an element and a React component?

- A React element is what gets returned from components.

3. What are some advantages of React’s component based architecture?

- Highly modular.

### [Introducing JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html)

1. What is JSX and why do we use it?

- JSX allows us to mix JS and HTML in the same file.

2. Describe the process of embedding JavaScript expressions in JSX.

- Put it in curly braces and then place in the code.

3. Is it safe to embed user input in JSX? Explain.

- Yes. "By default, React DOM escapes any values embedded in JSX before rendering them. Thus it ensures that you can never inject anything that’s not explicitly written in your application. Everything is converted to a string before being rendered."

### [Rendering Elements](https://reactjs.org/docs/rendering-elements.html)

1. Explain what a React Component is to a non-technical friend.

- A component is essentially a modularized piece of code.

2. Describe mutability and React Components, specifically, how is the UI updated?

- Elements are immutable, so the component representation is the outline for how the UI will look, but not necessarily with the information that will be passed in.

3. If changes are made to the UI, what does React update?

- What is necessary to change in React DOM.

---

[HOME PAGE](https://getullrichordietrying.github.io/reading-notes/)
