# Code Fellows 401 JavaScript

## Class 17: AWS: S3 and Lambda

### [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)

1. What is Amazon S3?

- "Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage service offering industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. Customers of all sizes and industries can store and protect any amount of data for virtually any use case, such as data lakes, cloud-native applications, and mobile apps. With cost-effective storage classes and easy-to-use management features, you can optimize costs, organize data, and configure fine-tuned access controls to meet specific business, organizational, and compliance requirements."

2. Name some use cases for Amazon S3.

- Back up data
- Run cloud applications

3. Name some benefits of using Amazon S3.

- Easy way to manage cloud storage/DB.

### [AWS Lambda](https://www.serverless.com/aws-lambda)

1. What is AWS Lambda?

- Serverless computing service by AWS.

2. Name some use cases for AWS Lambdas.

- Task automation.
- Individual tasks that run for a short amount of time.

3. Describe “serverless” to a non-technical friend.

- Serverless means instead of always being on, a task is simply run when it needs to be executed.

### [CDN](https://cyberhoot.com/cybrary/content-delivery-network-cdn/)

1. What is a CDN?

- "A Content Delivery Network (CDN) is a geographically distributed group of servers that work together to provide fast delivery of Internet content. A CDN allows for the fast transfer of data needed for loading Internet content including HTML pages, javascript files, stylesheets, images, and videos."

2. How does a CDN work with relation to the website visitor?

- A CDN provides the content from a site to the user more quickly than the original host as it is a cached version of the contents that is closer in location/speed.

3. What are the benefits of employing a CDN?

- "Internet website load speeds, content delivery speeds, and to reduce the likelihood of Distributed Denial of Service attacks (DDoS)."

---

[HOME PAGE](https://getullrichordietrying.github.io/reading-notes/)
