# Code Fellows 301

## Class 10

### JS Call Stack

What is a ‘call’?

- A call stack is a data structure that uses the Last In, First Out (LIFO) principle to temporarily store and manage function invocation (call).

How many ‘calls’ can happen at once?

- One at a time.

What does LIFO mean?

- Last in First Out. (Same as accounting, selling shares, etc.)

Draw an example of a call stack and the functions that would need to be invoked to generate that call stack.

Below code provided by freecodecamp:

```js
function firstFunction() {
  throw new Error('Stack Trace Error');
}

function secondFunction() {
  firstFunction();
}

function thirdFunction() {
  secondFunction();
}

thirdFunction();
```

- Pushed in and popped out from the top.

What causes a Stack Overflow?

- Occurs when you call a function that calls itself as there is no exit point for the function.

[Reference](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/understanding-the-javascript-call-stack-861e41ae61d4)

### JS Error Messages

What is a ‘reference error’?

- Simple error like trying to use a variable that is not defined.

What is a ‘syntax error’?

- Occurs when something cannot be parsed in terms of syntax.

What is a ‘range error’?

- Trying to return an object without a valid length.
- Trying to return an array with a negative length.

What is a ‘type error’?

- Happens when you are trying to use incompatible data types.
- Think trying to do math in JS, but you realize your variable is a string so you need to `parseInt()`.

What is a breakpoint?

- You can make a breakpoint that tells the code to stop running in a specific place.

What does the word ‘debugger’ do in your code?

- "The debugger statement invokes any available debugging functionality, such as setting a breakpoint. If no debugging functionality is available, this statement has no effect."

[MDN Debugger](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/debugger)

[Reference](https://codeburst.io/javascript-error-messages-debugging-d23f84f0ae7c)

---

[HOME PAGE](https://getullrichordietrying.github.io/reading-notes/)
