# Code Fellows 301

## Class 3

### Lists & Keys

What does .map() return?

- A new array of the same length with results of calling a function on every element in the calling array.

If I want to loop through an array and display each value in JSX, how
do I do that in React?

- Use curly braces in JSX to build and display collections of arrays.

Each list item needs a unique \_\_\_\_.

- Key.

What is the purpose of a key?

- Help identify if items have changed, are added, or are removed.

[Reference](https://reactjs.org/docs/lists-and-keys.html)

### The Spread Operator

What is the spread operator?

- `...` Spreads array into separate arguments.

List 4 things that the spread operator can do.

- Combining Objects
- Adding state in React
- Adding an item to a list
- Concatenating arrays.

Give an example of using the spread operator to combine two arrays.

```js
const myArray = [`ðŸ¤ª`, `ðŸ»`, `ðŸŽŒ`];
const yourArray = [`ðŸ™‚`, `ðŸ¤—`, `ðŸ¤©`];
const ourArray = [...myArray, ...yourArray];
console.log(...ourArray); // ðŸ¤ª ðŸ» ðŸŽŒ ðŸ™‚ ðŸ¤— ðŸ¤©
```

Give an example of using the spread operator to add a new item to an array.

```js
const fewFruit = ['ðŸ', 'ðŸŠ', 'ðŸŒ'];
const fewMoreFruit = ['ðŸ‰', 'ðŸ', ...fewFruit];
console.log(fewMoreFruit); //  Array(5) [ "ðŸ‰", "ðŸ", "ðŸ", "ðŸŠ", "ðŸŒ" ]
```

Give an example of using the spread operator to combine two objects into one.

```js
const objectOne = { hello: 'ðŸ¤ª' };
const objectTwo = { world: 'ðŸ»' };
const objectThree = { ...objectOne, ...objectTwo, laugh: 'ðŸ˜‚' };
console.log(objectThree); // Object { hello: "ðŸ¤ª", world: "ðŸ»", laugh: "ðŸ˜‚" }
const objectFour = {
  ...objectOne,
  ...objectTwo,
  laugh: () => {
    console.log('ðŸ˜‚'.repeat(5));
  },
};
objectFour.laugh(); // ðŸ˜‚ðŸ˜‚ðŸ˜‚ðŸ˜‚ðŸ˜‚
```

[Reference](https://medium.com/coding-at-dawn/how-to-use-the-spread-operator-in-javascript-b9e4a8b06fab)

### How to pass functions between components

In the video, what is the first step that the developer does to pass functions between components?

- Create arrow function within constructor on app.js.

In your own words, what does the increment function do?

- There are multiple increment functions created. One sets state when clicked and increments the count. The other is checking if state has changed.

How can you pass a method from a parent component into a child component?

- Pass the function into your object that is your child component.

How does the child component invoke a method that was passed to it from a parent component?

- You call the method from the parent and pass the value into the parent method.

[Reference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c05OL7XbwXU)

---

[HOME PAGE](https://getullrichordietrying.github.io/reading-notes/)
