# Code Fellows 301

## Class 5

### Thinking in React

What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?

- A component should ideally only do one thing. If it ends up growing, it should be decomposed into smaller subcomponents.

What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?

- Build out everything that does not need interactivity/state.

Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?

- State to add interactivity.

What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?

- Is it passed in from a parent via props? If so, it probably isn’t state.
- Does it remain unchanged over time? If so, it probably isn’t state.
- Can you compute it based on any other state or props in your component? If so, it isn’t state.

How can you identify where state needs to live?

- Identify every component that renders something based on that state.
- Find a common owner component (a single component above all the components that need the state in the hierarchy).
- Either the common owner or another component higher up in the hierarchy should own the state.
- If you can’t find a component where it makes sense to own the state, create a new component solely for holding the state and add it somewhere in the hierarchy above the common owner component.

[Reference](https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html)

### Higher-Order Functions

What is a “higher-order function”?

- Takes in function as argument or returns a function.

Explore the greaterThan function as defined in the reading. In your own words, what is line 2 of this function doing?

- Checking if the entered number m is greater than the ref number n.

Explain how either map or reduce operates, with regards to higher-order functions.

- Applies functions to all elements of an array.

[Reference](https://eloquentjavascript.net/05_higher_order.html#h_xxCc98lOBK)

[HOME PAGE](https://getullrichordietrying.github.io/reading-notes/)
